README.md, before:

# Tajheez Monorepo

This workspace hosts the Tajheez backend (`backend/`), frontend (`frontend/`), SQL assets (`sql/`), and supporting docs (`documnets/`). To understand workflows, coding style, and review expectations, start with the contributor playbook in [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md).

Additional module-specific instructions:
- `frontend/README.md` — default Next.js usage directions.
- `documnets/API_Documentation.md` — REST contract summary.
- `documnets/TAJHEEZ_Combined_Frontend_Developer_Document.md` — product and UI context.
- `documnets/FRONTEND_CLOUD_RUN_PLAN.md` — plan for deploying the Next.js frontend to Google Cloud Run.

Keep new documentation near related code and update the guides above whenever behavior or APIs change.

## Backend database access (Cloud SQL proxy)

Local scripts should connect to Cloud SQL the same way production does: through the Cloud SQL Auth Proxy. Export the standard env vars and create the instance connection string before starting:

```bash
export PROJECT_ID="yamn-cc"
export REGION="us-central1"
export INSTANCE="postgresql"
export INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME="${PROJECT_ID}:${REGION}:${INSTANCE}"
export DB_USER="appuser"
export DB_PASS="E7s@@sii"
export DB_NAME="finance"
```

Download the proxy (v2+) once and keep it in the repo root:

```bash
curl -sSLo cloud-sql-proxy https://storage.googleapis.com/cloud-sql-connectors/cloud-sql-proxy/v2.11.0/cloud-sql-proxy.linux.amd64
chmod +x cloud-sql-proxy
```

Start the proxy on a local port using your `gcloud auth application-default login` context or a service-account key:

```bash
./cloud-sql-proxy "$INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME" --port 5433 &
```

With the proxy listening, you can run targeted checks (for example the Phase 1 smoke test) just like the CI pipeline:

```bash
PGPASSWORD="$DB_PASS" psql -h 127.0.0.1 -p 5433 -U "$DB_USER" -d "$DB_NAME" -f sql/phase1_smoketest.sql
```

Shut down the background proxy process after testing to free the port (`kill %<job>` or `pkill -f cloud-sql-proxy`).

### Backend API exposure & CORS

When exposing the Express API to Vercel or other clients, set `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in the backend `.env` (comma-separated list, e.g., `https://tajheez.vercel.app,https://staging-tajheez.vercel.app`). The server now enforces this list through `cors()` so Cloud Run stays locked down while still allowing local origins (empty variable) for development.

## Frontend deployment (Vercel)

Pushes to `main` run `.github/workflows/frontend-vercel.yml`, which:
- installs dependencies in `frontend/`,
- runs `npm run lint` and `npm run build`, and
- deploys the prebuilt output to Vercel production.

To keep the workflow green you must populate these GitHub Action secrets with the values from your Vercel project:

| Secret | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `VERCEL_TOKEN` | Personal/token-based access for the CLI |
| `VERCEL_ORG_ID` | Organization scope returned by `vercel link` |
| `VERCEL_PROJECT_ID` | Project identifier returned by `vercel link` |

Locally, run `npx vercel link` inside `frontend/` to verify the project binding and `npx vercel env pull` if you need the same environment variables for previews or smoke testing.

### Frontend ↔ Backend linking

Set `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` (both in `.env.local` and Vercel) to the HTTPS URL of the Google Cloud Run backend so the Next.js client points at the live API. The frontend HTTP client strips trailing slashes automatically, so provide the root (for example `https://partnership-finance-backend-xxxx.a.run.app`). Keep `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in the backend `.env` aligned with the Vercel domain to avoid CORS rejections.

### End-to-end tests

The frontend now ships with Playwright smoke tests under `frontend/tests/e2e/`. Run them locally with:

```bash
cd frontend
npx playwright install --with-deps   # once per machine
npm run dev                          # in a separate terminal
E2E_BASE_URL="http://localhost:3000" npm run test:e2e
```

Point `E2E_BASE_URL` at a deployed Vercel preview to validate real API interactions before promoting to production.

Commit message:

feat(ci): Add frontend Cloud Run deployment workflow

README.md, after:

# Tajheez Monorepo

This workspace hosts the Tajheez backend (`backend/`), frontend (`frontend/`), SQL assets (`sql/`), and supporting docs (`documnets/`). To understand workflows, coding style, and review expectations, start with the contributor playbook in [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md).

Additional module-specific instructions:
- `frontend/README.md` — default Next.js usage directions.
- `documnets/API_Documentation.md` — REST contract summary.
- `documnets/TAJHEEZ_Combined_Frontend_Developer_Document.md` — product and UI context.
- `documnets/FRONTEND_CLOUD_RUN_PLAN.md` — plan for deploying the Next.js frontend to Google Cloud Run.

Keep new documentation near related code and update the guides above whenever behavior or APIs change.

## Backend database access (Cloud SQL proxy)

Local scripts should connect to Cloud SQL the same way production does: through the Cloud SQL Auth Proxy. Export the standard env vars and create the instance connection string before starting:

```bash
export PROJECT_ID="yamn-cc"
export REGION="us-central1"
export INSTANCE="postgresql"
export INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME="${PROJECT_ID}:${REGION}:${INSTANCE}"
export DB_USER="appuser"
export DB_PASS="E7s@@sii"
export DB_NAME="finance"
```

Download the proxy (v2+) once and keep it in the repo root:

```bash
curl -sSLo cloud-sql-proxy https://storage.googleapis.com/cloud-sql-connectors/cloud-sql-proxy/v2.11.0/cloud-sql-proxy.linux.amd64
chmod +x cloud-sql-proxy
```

Start the proxy on a local port using your `gcloud auth application-default login` context or a service-account key:

```bash
./cloud-sql-proxy "$INSTANCE_CONNECTION_NAME" --port 5433 &
```

With the proxy listening, you can run targeted checks (for example the Phase 1 smoke test) just like the CI pipeline:

```bash
PGPASSWORD="$DB_PASS" psql -h 127.0.0.1 -p 5433 -U "$DB_USER" -d "$DB_NAME" -f sql/phase1_smoketest.sql
```

Shut down the background proxy process after testing to free the port (`kill %<job>` or `pkill -f cloud-sql-proxy`).

### Backend API exposure & CORS

When exposing the Express API to Vercel or other clients, set `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in the backend `.env` (comma-separated list, e.g., `https://tajheez.vercel.app,https://staging-tajheez.vercel.app`). The server now enforces this list through `cors()` so Cloud Run stays locked down while still allowing local origins (empty variable) for development.

## Frontend deployment (Cloud Run)

Pushes to `main` run `.github/workflows/frontend-cloudrun.yml`, which:
- installs dependencies in `frontend/`,
- runs `npm run lint` and `npm run build`,
- builds a Docker image and pushes it to Artifact Registry, and
- deploys the image to Cloud Run (`$GCP_FRONTEND_SERVICE`).

Populate these GitHub Action secrets before merging:

| Secret | Purpose |
| --- | --- |
| `GCP_PROJECT_ID` | GCP project (e.g., `yamn-cc`) |
| `GCP_REGION` | Cloud Run region (e.g., `us-central1`) |
| `GCP_ARTIFACT_REPO` | Artifact Registry repo name (e.g., `partnership-finance-repo`) |
| `GCP_FRONTEND_SERVICE` | Cloud Run service name (e.g., `partnership-frontend`) |
| `WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_PROVIDER` | WIF provider for GitHub Actions |
| `SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL` | Deploy service account email |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` | Backend API base URL exposed to the frontend |

### Frontend ↔ Backend linking

Set `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` (both in `.env.local` and Cloud Run env vars) to the HTTPS URL of the backend service. Keep `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in the backend `.env` aligned with the Cloud Run frontend URL to avoid CORS issues.

### End-to-end tests

The frontend ships with Playwright smoke tests under `frontend/tests/e2e/`. Run them locally with:

```bash
cd frontend
npx playwright install --with-deps   # once per machine
npm run dev                          # in a separate terminal
E2E_BASE_URL="http://localhost:3000" npm run test:e2e
```

Point `E2E_BASE_URL` at a deployed Vercel preview to validate real API interactions before promoting to production.
